taskcluster/docs/versioncontrol.rst, before:

=====================
Version Control in CI
=====================

Upgrading Mercurial
===================

Upgrading Mercurial in CI requires touching a handful of different
components.

Vendored robustcheckout
-----------------------

The ``robustcheckout`` Mercurial extension is used throughout CI to
perform clones and working directory updates. The canonical home of
the extension is in the
https://hg.mozilla.org/hgcustom/version-control-tools repository
at the path ``hgext/robustcheckout/__init__.py``. A copy of the
extension is vendored at
``testing/mozharness/external_tools/robustcheckout.py``.

When upgrading Mercurial, the ``robustcheckout`` extension should also
be updated to ensure it is compatible with the version of Mercurial
being upgraded to. Typically, one simply copies the latest version
from ``version-control-tools`` into the vendored location.

Debian Packages for Debian Based Docker Images
----------------------------------------------

``taskcluster/ci/packages/kind.yml`` defines custom Debian packages for
Mercurial. These are installed in various Docker images.

To upgrade Mercurial, typically you just need to update the source URL
and its hash in this file.

Non-Debian Linux Docker Images
------------------------------

The ``taskcluster/docker/recipes/install-mercurial.sh`` script is sourced
by a handful of Docker images to install Mercurial.

The script references 3 tooltool artifacts:

* A Mercurial source tarball (for ``pip`` installs).
* A ``mercurial_*_amd64.deb`` Debian package.
* A ``mercurial-common_*_all.deb`` Debian package.

The source tarball is a vanilla Mercurial source distribution. The Debian
archives will need to be produced manually.

To produce the Debian archives,
``hg clone https://www.mercurial-scm.org/repo/hg`` and ``hg update`` to
the tag being built. Then run ``make docker-ubuntu-xenial``. This will
build the Mercurial Debian packages in a Docker container. It will deposit
the produced packages in ``packages/ubuntu-xenial/``.

Once all 3 files are available, copy them to the same directory and
upload them to tooltool.

   $ tooltool.py add --public mercurial-x.y.z.tar.gz mercurial*.deb
   $ tooltool.py upload --message 'Bug XXX - Mercurial x.y.z' --authentication-file ~/.tooltoolauth

.. note::

   See https://wiki.mozilla.org/ReleaseEngineering/Applications/Tooltool#How_To_Upload_To_Tooltool
   for how to use tooltool and where to obtain ``tooltool.py``.

Next, copy values from the ``manifest.tt`` file into
``taskcluster/docker/recipes/install-mercurial.sh``. See revision
``977768c296ca`` for an example upgrade.

Windows AMIs
------------

https://github.com/mozilla-releng/OpenCloudConfig defines the Windows
environment for various Windows AMIs used by Taskcluster. Several of
the files reference a ``mercurial-x.y.z-*.msi`` installer. These references
will need to be updated to the Mercurial version being upgraded to.

The ``robustcheckout`` extension is also vendored into this repository
at ``userdata/Configuration/FirefoxBuildResources/robustcheckout.py``. It
should also be updated if needed.

Puppet Maintained Hosts
-----------------------

Some hosts (namely macOS machines) are managed by Puppet and Puppet is used
to install Mercurial.

Puppet code lives in the https://hg.mozilla.org/build/puppet repository.
Relevant files are in ``modules/mercurial/``,
``modules/packages/manifests/mozilla/mozilla-python27-mercurial-debian/``,
and ``modules/packages/manifests/mozilla/py27_mercurial*``. A copy of
``robustcheckout`` is also vendored at
``modules/mercurial/files/robustcheckout.py``.

.. note::

   The steps to upgrade Mercurial in Puppet aren't currently captured here.
   Someone should capture those...

Commit message:

Bug 1492878: update list of locations with vendored `robustcheckout` r=Callek
There are a few external repos that hold copies of robustcheckout
in various places, mainly on release engineering infrastructure
that has been moved to GitHub. We should document those locations
in the same place we document the upgrade steps for Mercurial in
CI.

Differential Revision: https://phabricator.services.mozilla.com/D6989

taskcluster/docs/versioncontrol.rst, after:

=====================
Version Control in CI
=====================

Upgrading Mercurial
===================

Upgrading Mercurial in CI requires touching a handful of different
components.

Vendored robustcheckout
-----------------------

The ``robustcheckout`` Mercurial extension is used throughout CI to
perform clones and working directory updates. The canonical home of
the extension is in the
https://hg.mozilla.org/hgcustom/version-control-tools repository
at the path ``hgext/robustcheckout/__init__.py``.


When upgrading Mercurial, the ``robustcheckout`` extension should also
be updated to ensure it is compatible with the version of Mercurial
being upgraded to. Typically, one simply copies the latest version
from ``version-control-tools`` into the vendored locations.

The locations are as follows:

- In-tree: ``testing/mozharness/external_tools/robustcheckout.py``
- Treescript: ``https://github.com/mozilla-releng/treescript/tree/master/treescript/py2/robustcheckout.py``
- build-puppet: ``https://github.com/mozilla-releng/build-puppet/blob/master/modules/mercurial/files/robustcheckout.py``


Debian Packages for Debian Based Docker Images
----------------------------------------------

``taskcluster/ci/packages/kind.yml`` defines custom Debian packages for
Mercurial. These are installed in various Docker images.

To upgrade Mercurial, typically you just need to update the source URL
and its hash in this file.

Non-Debian Linux Docker Images
------------------------------

The ``taskcluster/docker/recipes/install-mercurial.sh`` script is sourced
by a handful of Docker images to install Mercurial.

The script references 3 tooltool artifacts:

* A Mercurial source tarball (for ``pip`` installs).
* A ``mercurial_*_amd64.deb`` Debian package.
* A ``mercurial-common_*_all.deb`` Debian package.

The source tarball is a vanilla Mercurial source distribution. The Debian
archives will need to be produced manually.

To produce the Debian archives,
``hg clone https://www.mercurial-scm.org/repo/hg`` and ``hg update`` to
the tag being built. Then run ``make docker-ubuntu-xenial``. This will
build the Mercurial Debian packages in a Docker container. It will deposit
the produced packages in ``packages/ubuntu-xenial/``.

Once all 3 files are available, copy them to the same directory and
upload them to tooltool.

   $ tooltool.py add --public mercurial-x.y.z.tar.gz mercurial*.deb
   $ tooltool.py upload --message 'Bug XXX - Mercurial x.y.z' --authentication-file ~/.tooltoolauth

.. note::

   See https://wiki.mozilla.org/ReleaseEngineering/Applications/Tooltool#How_To_Upload_To_Tooltool
   for how to use tooltool and where to obtain ``tooltool.py``.

Next, copy values from the ``manifest.tt`` file into
``taskcluster/docker/recipes/install-mercurial.sh``. See revision
``977768c296ca`` for an example upgrade.

Windows AMIs
------------

https://github.com/mozilla-releng/OpenCloudConfig defines the Windows
environment for various Windows AMIs used by Taskcluster. Several of
the files reference a ``mercurial-x.y.z-*.msi`` installer. These references
will need to be updated to the Mercurial version being upgraded to.

The ``robustcheckout`` extension is also vendored into this repository
at ``userdata/Configuration/FirefoxBuildResources/robustcheckout.py``. It
should also be updated if needed.

Puppet Maintained Hosts
-----------------------

Some hosts (namely macOS machines) are managed by Puppet and Puppet is used
to install Mercurial.

Puppet code lives in the https://hg.mozilla.org/build/puppet repository.
Relevant files are in ``modules/mercurial/``,
``modules/packages/manifests/mozilla/mozilla-python27-mercurial-debian/``,
and ``modules/packages/manifests/mozilla/py27_mercurial*``. A copy of
``robustcheckout`` is also vendored at
``modules/mercurial/files/robustcheckout.py``.

.. note::

   The steps to upgrade Mercurial in Puppet aren't currently captured here.
   Someone should capture those...
