toolkit/components/telemetry/docs/internals/pingsender.rst, before:

Ping Sender
===========

The ping sender is a minimalistic program whose sole purpose is to deliver a
telemetry ping. It accepts a single parameter which is the URL the ping will
be sent to (as an HTTP POST command) and once started it will wait to read the
ping contents on its stdin stream. Once the ping has been read from stdin the
ping sender will try to post it once, exiting with a non-zero value if it
fails.

The ping sender relies on libcurl for Linux and Mac build and on WinInet for
Windows ones for its HTTP functionality. It currently ignores Firefox or the
system proxy configuration.

In non-debug mode the ping sender doesn't print anything, not even on error,
this is done deliberately to prevent startling the user on architectures such
as Windows that would open a seperate console window just to display the
program output. If you need runtime information to be printed out compile the
ping sender with debuggging enabled.

The pingsender is not supported on Firefox for Android at the moment
(see `bug 1335917 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1335917>`_)

Commit message:

Bug 1333128 - Make the pingsender compress the outgoing ping with gzip. r=chutten,gsvelto
This also adds a 'Date' header and a custom version header for the pingsender.
It additionally makes sure that the Windows implementation fails when HTTP error
codes are returned from the server.

MozReview-Commit-ID: 4IekLyI2AnQ

toolkit/components/telemetry/docs/internals/pingsender.rst, after:

Ping Sender
===========

The ping sender is a minimalistic program whose sole purpose is to deliver a
telemetry ping. It accepts a single parameter which is the URL the ping will
be sent to (as an HTTP POST command) and once started it will wait to read the
ping contents on its stdin stream. Once the ping has been read from stdin the
ping sender will try to post it once, exiting with a non-zero value if it
fails.

The content of the HTTP request is *gzip* encoded. The request comes with a few
additional headers:

- ``User-Agent: pingsender/1.0``
- ``X-PingSender-Version: 1.0``. Even if this data is already included by the user agent, this
  header is needed as the pipeline is not currently storing use agent strings and doing that
  could require storing a fair chunk of redundant extra data. We need to discern between pings
  sent using the ping sender and the ones sent using the normal flow, at the end of the
  ingestion pipeline, for validation purposes.

The ping sender relies on libcurl for Linux and Mac build and on WinInet for
Windows ones for its HTTP functionality. It currently ignores Firefox or the
system proxy configuration.

In non-debug mode the ping sender doesn't print anything, not even on error,
this is done deliberately to prevent startling the user on architectures such
as Windows that would open a seperate console window just to display the
program output. If you need runtime information to be printed out compile the
ping sender with debuggging enabled.

The pingsender is not supported on Firefox for Android at the moment
(see `bug 1335917 <https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1335917>`_)
