toolkit/components/telemetry/docs/internals/preferences.rst, before:

Preferences
===========

Telemetry behaviour is controlled through the mozconfig defines and preferences listed here.

mozconfig Defines
-----------------

``MOZ_TELEMETRY_REPORTING``

  When Defined (which it is for official builds):

  * If ``RELEASE_OR_BETA`` is not defined, defines ``MOZ_TELEMETRY_ON_BY_DEFAULT``

  When Not Defined:

  * If ``datareporting.healthreport.uploadEnabled`` is locked, we print a message in the Privacy settings that you cannot turn on data submission and disabled the checkbox so you don't try.
  * Android: hides the data submission UI to prevent users from thinking they can turn it on
  * Disables Telemetry from being sent (due to ``Telemetry::IsOfficialTelemetry``)

``MOZ_TELEMETRY_ON_BY_DEFAULT``

  When Defined:

  * Android: enables ``toolkit.telemetry.enabled``

``MOZ_SERVICES_HEALTHREPORT``

  When Defined (which it is on most platforms):

  * includes ``toolkit/components/telemetry/healthreport-prefs.js`` (which sets ``datareporting.healthreport.{infoURL|uploadEnabled}``)

``MOZ_DATA_REPORTING``

  When Defined (which it is when ``MOZ_TELEMETRY_REPORTING``, ``MOZ_SERVICES_HEALTHREPORT``, or ``MOZ_CRASHREPORTER`` is defined (so, on most platforms, but not typically on developer builds)):

  * Enables ``app.shield.optoutstudies.enabled``

  When Not Defined:

  * Disables ``app.shield.optoutstudies.enabled``
  * Removes the Data Collection Preferences UI in ``privacy.xul``

``MOZILLA_OFFICIAL``

  When Not Defined (defined on our own external builds and builds from several Linux distros, but not typically on defeloper builds):

  * Disables Telemetry from being sent (due to ``Telemetry::IsOfficialTelemetry``)

``MOZ_UPDATE_CHANNEL``

  When not ``release`` or ``beta``:

  * If ``MOZ_TELEMETRY_REPORTING`` is also defined, defines ``MOZ_TELEMETRY_ON_BY_DEFAULT``

  When ``beta``:

  * If ``toolkit.telemetry.enabled`` is otherwise unset at startup, ``toolkit.telemetry.enabled`` is defaulted to ``true`` (this is irrespective of ``MOZ_TELEMETRY_REPORTING``)

  When ``nightly`` or ``aurora`` or ``beta`` or ``default``:

  * Desktop: Locks ``toolkit.telemetry.enabled`` to ``true``. All other values for ``MOZ_UPDATE_CHANNEL`` on Desktop locks ``toolkit.telemetry.enabled`` to ``false``.
  * Desktop: Defaults ``Telemetry::CanRecordExtended`` (and, thus ``Telemetry::CanRecordReleaseData``) to ``true``. All other values of ``MOZ_UPDATE_CHANNEL`` on Desktop defaults these to ``false``.

``DEBUG``

  When Defined:

  * Disables Telemetry from being sent (due to ``Telemetry::IsOfficialTelemetry``)

**In Short:**

  For builds downloaded from mozilla.com ``MOZ_TELEMETRY_REPORTING`` is defined, ``MOZ_TELEMETRY_ON_BY_DEFAULT`` is on if you downloaded Nightly or Developer Edition, ``MOZ_SERVICES_HEALTHREPORT`` is defined, ``MOZ_DATA_REPORTING`` is defined, ``MOZILLA_OFFICIAL`` is defined, ``MOZ_UPDATE_CHANNEL`` is set to the channel you downloaded, and ``DEBUG`` is false. This means Telemetry is, by default, collecting some amount of information and is sending it to Mozilla.

  For builds you make yourself with a blank mozconfig, ``MOZ_UPDATE_CHANNEL`` is set to ``default`` and everything else is undefined. This means Telemetry is, by default, collecting an extended amount of information but isn't sending it anywhere.

Preferences
-----------

``toolkit.telemetry.unified``

  This controls whether unified behavior is enabled. If true:

  * Telemetry is always enabled and recording *base* data.
  * Telemetry will send additional ``main`` pings.

  It defaults to ``true``, but is ``false`` on Android (Fennec) builds.

``toolkit.telemetry.enabled``

  If ``unified`` is off, this controls whether the Telemetry module is enabled. It can be set or unset via the `Preferences` dialog in Firefox for Android (Fennec).
  If ``unified`` is on, this is locked to ``true`` if ``MOZ_UPDATE_CHANNEL`` is ``nightly`` or ``aurora`` or ``beta`` or ``default`` (which is the default value of ``MOZ_UPDATE_CHANNEL`` for developer builds). Otherwise it is locked to ``false``. This controls a diminishing number of things and is intended to be deprecated, and then removed.

``datareporting.healthreport.uploadEnabled``

  If ``unified`` is true, this controls whether we send Telemetry data.
  If ``unified`` is false, we don't use this value.

``toolkit.telemetry.archive.enabled``

  Allow pings to be archived locally. This can only be enabled if ``unified`` is on.

``toolkit.telemetry.server``

  The server Telemetry pings are sent to.

``toolkit.telemetry.log.level``

  This sets the Telemetry logging verbosity per ``Log.jsm``, with ``Trace`` or ``0`` being the most verbose and the default being ``Warn``.
  By default logging goes only the console service.

``toolkit.telemetry.log.dump``

  Sets whether to dump Telemetry log messages to ``stdout`` too.

``toolkit.telemetry.shutdownPingSender.enabled``

  Allow the ``shutdown`` ping to be sent when the browser shuts down, from the second browsing session on, instead of the next restart, using the :doc:`ping sender <pingsender>`.

``toolkit.telemetry.shutdownPingSender.enabledFirstSession``

  Allow the ``shutdown`` ping to be sent using the :doc:`ping sender <pingsender>` from the first browsing session.

``toolkit.telemetry.firstShutdownPing.enabled``

  Allow a duplicate of the ``main`` shutdown ping from the first browsing session to be sent as a separate ``first-shutdown`` ping.

``toolkit.telemetry.newProfilePing.enabled``

  Enable the :doc:`../data/new-profile-ping` on new profiles.

``toolkit.telemetry.newProfilePing.delay``

  Controls the delay after which the :doc:`../data/new-profile-ping` is sent on new profiles.

``toolkit.telemetry.updatePing.enabled``

  Enable the :doc:`../data/update-ping` on browser updates.

``toolkit.telemetry.maxEventSummaryKeys``

  Set the maximum number of keys per process of the :ref:`Event Summary <events.event-summary>`
  :ref:`keyed scalars <scalars.keyed-scalars>`. Default is 500. Change requires restart.

``toolkit.telemetry.eventping.eventLimit``

  The maximum number of event records permitted in the :doc:`../data/event-ping`.
  Default is 1000.

``toolkit.telemetry.eventping.minimumFrequency``

  The minimum frequency at which an :doc:`../data/event-ping` will be sent.
  Default is 60 (minutes).

``toolkit.telemetry.eventping.maximumFrequency``

  The maximum frequency at which an :doc:`../data/event-ping` will be sent.
  Default is 10 (minutes).

Data-choices notification
-------------------------

``toolkit.telemetry.reportingpolicy.firstRun``

  This preference is not present until the first run. After, its value is set to false. This is used to show the infobar with a more aggressive timeout if it wasn't shown yet.

``datareporting.policy.firstRunURL``

  If set, a browser tab will be opened on first run instead of the infobar.

``datareporting.policy.dataSubmissionEnabled``

  This is the data submission master kill switch. If disabled, no policy is shown or upload takes place, ever.

``datareporting.policy.dataSubmissionPolicyNotifiedTime``

  Records the date user was shown the policy. This preference is also used on Android.

``datareporting.policy.dataSubmissionPolicyAcceptedVersion``

  Records the version of the policy notified to the user. This preference is also used on Android.

``datareporting.policy.dataSubmissionPolicyBypassNotification``

  Used in tests, it allows to skip the notification check.

``datareporting.policy.currentPolicyVersion``

  Stores the current policy version, overrides the default value defined in TelemetryReportingPolicy.jsm.

``datareporting.policy.minimumPolicyVersion``

  The minimum policy version that is accepted for the current policy. This can be set per channel.

``datareporting.policy.minimumPolicyVersion.channel-NAME``

  This is the only channel-specific version that we currently use for the minimum policy version.

GeckoView
---------

``toolkit.telemetry.isGeckoViewMode``

   Whether or not Telemetry needs to run in :doc:`GeckoView <../internals/geckoview>` mode. If true, measurements persistence is enabled. Defaults to false on all products except GeckoView.

``toolkit.telemetry.geckoPersistenceTimeout``

   The interval that governs how frequently measurements are saved to disk, in milliseconds. Defaults to 60000 (60 seconds).

Testing
-------

The following prefs are for testing purpose only.

``toolkit.telemetry.initDelay``

  Delay before initializing telemetry (seconds).

``toolkit.telemetry.minSubsessionLength``

  Minimum length of a telemetry subsession and throttling time for common environment changes (seconds).

``toolkit.telemetry.collectInterval``

  Minimum interval between data collection (seconds).

``toolkit.telemetry.scheduler.tickInterval``

  Interval between scheduler ticks (seconds).

``toolkit.telemetry.scheduler.idleTickInterval``

  Interval between scheduler ticks when the user is idle (seconds).

``toolkit.telemetry.idleTimeout``

  Timeout until we decide whether a user is idle or not (seconds).

``toolkit.telemetry.modulesPing.interval``

  Interval between "modules" ping transmissions.

``toolkit.telemetry.send.overrideOfficialCheck``

  If true, allows sending pings on unofficial builds. Requires a restart.

``toolkit.telemetry.testing.overridePreRelease``

  If true, allows recording opt-in Telemetry on the Release channel. Requires a restart.

``toolkit.telemetry.healthping.enabled``

  If false, sending health pings is disabled. Defaults to true.

Commit message:

bug 1463439 - Add a pref to enable 'event' ping. Defaults to true, except for GV. r=Dexter
When it's false we also disable collecting events completely, in case the
reason we're disabling it is due to storage issues.

GeckoView doesn't presently support Events, so the 'event' ping is disabled by
default for that platform.

MozReview-Commit-ID: 9eKAtRiuER0

toolkit/components/telemetry/docs/internals/preferences.rst, after:

Preferences
===========

Telemetry behaviour is controlled through the mozconfig defines and preferences listed here.

mozconfig Defines
-----------------

``MOZ_TELEMETRY_REPORTING``

  When Defined (which it is for official builds):

  * If ``RELEASE_OR_BETA`` is not defined, defines ``MOZ_TELEMETRY_ON_BY_DEFAULT``

  When Not Defined:

  * If ``datareporting.healthreport.uploadEnabled`` is locked, we print a message in the Privacy settings that you cannot turn on data submission and disabled the checkbox so you don't try.
  * Android: hides the data submission UI to prevent users from thinking they can turn it on
  * Disables Telemetry from being sent (due to ``Telemetry::IsOfficialTelemetry``)

``MOZ_TELEMETRY_ON_BY_DEFAULT``

  When Defined:

  * Android: enables ``toolkit.telemetry.enabled``

``MOZ_SERVICES_HEALTHREPORT``

  When Defined (which it is on most platforms):

  * includes ``toolkit/components/telemetry/healthreport-prefs.js`` (which sets ``datareporting.healthreport.{infoURL|uploadEnabled}``)

``MOZ_DATA_REPORTING``

  When Defined (which it is when ``MOZ_TELEMETRY_REPORTING``, ``MOZ_SERVICES_HEALTHREPORT``, or ``MOZ_CRASHREPORTER`` is defined (so, on most platforms, but not typically on developer builds)):

  * Enables ``app.shield.optoutstudies.enabled``

  When Not Defined:

  * Disables ``app.shield.optoutstudies.enabled``
  * Removes the Data Collection Preferences UI in ``privacy.xul``

``MOZILLA_OFFICIAL``

  When Not Defined (defined on our own external builds and builds from several Linux distros, but not typically on defeloper builds):

  * Disables Telemetry from being sent (due to ``Telemetry::IsOfficialTelemetry``)

``MOZ_UPDATE_CHANNEL``

  When not ``release`` or ``beta``:

  * If ``MOZ_TELEMETRY_REPORTING`` is also defined, defines ``MOZ_TELEMETRY_ON_BY_DEFAULT``

  When ``beta``:

  * If ``toolkit.telemetry.enabled`` is otherwise unset at startup, ``toolkit.telemetry.enabled`` is defaulted to ``true`` (this is irrespective of ``MOZ_TELEMETRY_REPORTING``)

  When ``nightly`` or ``aurora`` or ``beta`` or ``default``:

  * Desktop: Locks ``toolkit.telemetry.enabled`` to ``true``. All other values for ``MOZ_UPDATE_CHANNEL`` on Desktop locks ``toolkit.telemetry.enabled`` to ``false``.
  * Desktop: Defaults ``Telemetry::CanRecordExtended`` (and, thus ``Telemetry::CanRecordReleaseData``) to ``true``. All other values of ``MOZ_UPDATE_CHANNEL`` on Desktop defaults these to ``false``.

``DEBUG``

  When Defined:

  * Disables Telemetry from being sent (due to ``Telemetry::IsOfficialTelemetry``)

**In Short:**

  For builds downloaded from mozilla.com ``MOZ_TELEMETRY_REPORTING`` is defined, ``MOZ_TELEMETRY_ON_BY_DEFAULT`` is on if you downloaded Nightly or Developer Edition, ``MOZ_SERVICES_HEALTHREPORT`` is defined, ``MOZ_DATA_REPORTING`` is defined, ``MOZILLA_OFFICIAL`` is defined, ``MOZ_UPDATE_CHANNEL`` is set to the channel you downloaded, and ``DEBUG`` is false. This means Telemetry is, by default, collecting some amount of information and is sending it to Mozilla.

  For builds you make yourself with a blank mozconfig, ``MOZ_UPDATE_CHANNEL`` is set to ``default`` and everything else is undefined. This means Telemetry is, by default, collecting an extended amount of information but isn't sending it anywhere.

Preferences
-----------

``toolkit.telemetry.unified``

  This controls whether unified behavior is enabled. If true:

  * Telemetry is always enabled and recording *base* data.
  * Telemetry will send additional ``main`` pings.

  It defaults to ``true``, but is ``false`` on Android (Fennec) builds.

``toolkit.telemetry.enabled``

  If ``unified`` is off, this controls whether the Telemetry module is enabled. It can be set or unset via the `Preferences` dialog in Firefox for Android (Fennec).
  If ``unified`` is on, this is locked to ``true`` if ``MOZ_UPDATE_CHANNEL`` is ``nightly`` or ``aurora`` or ``beta`` or ``default`` (which is the default value of ``MOZ_UPDATE_CHANNEL`` for developer builds). Otherwise it is locked to ``false``. This controls a diminishing number of things and is intended to be deprecated, and then removed.

``datareporting.healthreport.uploadEnabled``

  If ``unified`` is true, this controls whether we send Telemetry data.
  If ``unified`` is false, we don't use this value.

``toolkit.telemetry.archive.enabled``

  Allow pings to be archived locally. This can only be enabled if ``unified`` is on.

``toolkit.telemetry.server``

  The server Telemetry pings are sent to.

``toolkit.telemetry.log.level``

  This sets the Telemetry logging verbosity per ``Log.jsm``, with ``Trace`` or ``0`` being the most verbose and the default being ``Warn``.
  By default logging goes only the console service.

``toolkit.telemetry.log.dump``

  Sets whether to dump Telemetry log messages to ``stdout`` too.

``toolkit.telemetry.shutdownPingSender.enabled``

  Allow the ``shutdown`` ping to be sent when the browser shuts down, from the second browsing session on, instead of the next restart, using the :doc:`ping sender <pingsender>`.

``toolkit.telemetry.shutdownPingSender.enabledFirstSession``

  Allow the ``shutdown`` ping to be sent using the :doc:`ping sender <pingsender>` from the first browsing session.

``toolkit.telemetry.firstShutdownPing.enabled``

  Allow a duplicate of the ``main`` shutdown ping from the first browsing session to be sent as a separate ``first-shutdown`` ping.

``toolkit.telemetry.newProfilePing.enabled``

  Enable the :doc:`../data/new-profile-ping` on new profiles.

``toolkit.telemetry.newProfilePing.delay``

  Controls the delay after which the :doc:`../data/new-profile-ping` is sent on new profiles.

``toolkit.telemetry.updatePing.enabled``

  Enable the :doc:`../data/update-ping` on browser updates.

``toolkit.telemetry.maxEventSummaryKeys``

  Set the maximum number of keys per process of the :ref:`Event Summary <events.event-summary>`
  :ref:`keyed scalars <scalars.keyed-scalars>`. Default is 500. Change requires restart.

``toolkit.telemetry.eventping.enabled``

  Whether the :doc:`../data/event-ping` is enabled.
  Default is true except for GeckoView where it defaults to false. Change requires restart.

``toolkit.telemetry.eventping.eventLimit``

  The maximum number of event records permitted in the :doc:`../data/event-ping`.
  Default is 1000.

``toolkit.telemetry.eventping.minimumFrequency``

  The minimum frequency at which an :doc:`../data/event-ping` will be sent.
  Default is 60 (minutes).

``toolkit.telemetry.eventping.maximumFrequency``

  The maximum frequency at which an :doc:`../data/event-ping` will be sent.
  Default is 10 (minutes).

Data-choices notification
-------------------------

``toolkit.telemetry.reportingpolicy.firstRun``

  This preference is not present until the first run. After, its value is set to false. This is used to show the infobar with a more aggressive timeout if it wasn't shown yet.

``datareporting.policy.firstRunURL``

  If set, a browser tab will be opened on first run instead of the infobar.

``datareporting.policy.dataSubmissionEnabled``

  This is the data submission master kill switch. If disabled, no policy is shown or upload takes place, ever.

``datareporting.policy.dataSubmissionPolicyNotifiedTime``

  Records the date user was shown the policy. This preference is also used on Android.

``datareporting.policy.dataSubmissionPolicyAcceptedVersion``

  Records the version of the policy notified to the user. This preference is also used on Android.

``datareporting.policy.dataSubmissionPolicyBypassNotification``

  Used in tests, it allows to skip the notification check.

``datareporting.policy.currentPolicyVersion``

  Stores the current policy version, overrides the default value defined in TelemetryReportingPolicy.jsm.

``datareporting.policy.minimumPolicyVersion``

  The minimum policy version that is accepted for the current policy. This can be set per channel.

``datareporting.policy.minimumPolicyVersion.channel-NAME``

  This is the only channel-specific version that we currently use for the minimum policy version.

GeckoView
---------

``toolkit.telemetry.isGeckoViewMode``

   Whether or not Telemetry needs to run in :doc:`GeckoView <../internals/geckoview>` mode. If true, measurements persistence is enabled. Defaults to false on all products except GeckoView.

``toolkit.telemetry.geckoPersistenceTimeout``

   The interval that governs how frequently measurements are saved to disk, in milliseconds. Defaults to 60000 (60 seconds).

Testing
-------

The following prefs are for testing purpose only.

``toolkit.telemetry.initDelay``

  Delay before initializing telemetry (seconds).

``toolkit.telemetry.minSubsessionLength``

  Minimum length of a telemetry subsession and throttling time for common environment changes (seconds).

``toolkit.telemetry.collectInterval``

  Minimum interval between data collection (seconds).

``toolkit.telemetry.scheduler.tickInterval``

  Interval between scheduler ticks (seconds).

``toolkit.telemetry.scheduler.idleTickInterval``

  Interval between scheduler ticks when the user is idle (seconds).

``toolkit.telemetry.idleTimeout``

  Timeout until we decide whether a user is idle or not (seconds).

``toolkit.telemetry.modulesPing.interval``

  Interval between "modules" ping transmissions.

``toolkit.telemetry.send.overrideOfficialCheck``

  If true, allows sending pings on unofficial builds. Requires a restart.

``toolkit.telemetry.testing.overridePreRelease``

  If true, allows recording opt-in Telemetry on the Release channel. Requires a restart.

``toolkit.telemetry.healthping.enabled``

  If false, sending health pings is disabled. Defaults to true.
