testing/web-platform/tests/docs/_writing-tests/testdriver.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: testdriver.js Automation
order: 8.5
---

testdriver.js provides a means to automate tests that cannot be
written purely using web platform APIs.

It is currently supported only for [testharness.js][testharness]
tests.

## API

testdriver.js exposes its API through the `test_driver` variable in
the global scope.

NB: presently, testdriver.js only works in the top-level test browsing
context (and not therefore in any frame or window opened from it).

### bless

Usage: `test_driver.bless(intent, action)`
 * `intent`: a string describing the motivation for this invocation
 * `action`: an optional function

This function simulates [activation][activation], allowing tests to
perform privileged operations that require user interaction. For
example, sandboxed iframes with the
`allow-top-navigation-by-user-activation` may only navigate their
parent's browsing context under these circumstances. The `intent`
string is presented to human operators when the test is not run in
automation.

This method returns a promise which is resolved with the result of
invoking the `action` function. If no such function is provided, the
promise is resolved with the value `undefined`.

Example:

```js
var mediaElement = document.createElement('video');

test_driver.bless('initiate media playback', function () {
  mediaElement.play();
});
```

### click

Usage: `test_driver.click(element)`
 * `element`: a DOM Element object

This function causes a click to occur on the target element (an
`Element` object), potentially scrolling the document to make it
possible to click it. It returns a `Promise` that resolves after the
click has occured or rejects if the element cannot be clicked (for
example, it is obscured by an element on top of it).

Note that if the element to be clicked does not have a unique ID, the
document must not have any DOM mutations made between the function
being called and the promise settling.

### send_keys

Usage: `test_driver.send_keys(element, keys)`
 * `element`: a DOM Element object
 * `keys`: string to send to the element

This function causes the string `keys` to be send to the target
element (an `Element` object), potentially scrolling the document to
make it possible to send keys. It returns a `Promise` that resolves
after the keys have been send or rejects if the keys cannot be sent
to the element.

Note that if the element that's keys need to be send to does not have
a unique ID, the document must not have any DOM mutations made
between the function being called and the promise settling.

To send special keys, one must send the respective key's codepoint. Since this uses the WebDriver protocol, you can find a [list for code points to special keys in the spec](https://w3c.github.io/webdriver/webdriver-spec.html#keyboard-actions).
For example, to send the tab key you would send "\uE004".

[activation]: https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/interaction.html#activation
[testharness]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link _writing-tests/testharness.md %}

Commit message:

Bug 1486883 [wpt PR 12726] - [test_driver] Add WebDriver-style actions support, a=testonly
Automatic update from web-platform-testsAdd action sequence injection in test_driver

Following web driver spec for pointer action
sequence and key actions this change adds this
API to the test_driver interface.

Use action_sequence instead of pointer_action_sequence

--
[testdriver] Support sending actions sequences over WebDriver

--
[testdriver] Add a builder object for constructing actions

Action sequences are not really sensible to construct by hand, so this
adds a builder object for constructing sequences of actions. To use it
the following script mut be included after testdriver.js:

<script src="/resources/testdriver-actions.js"></script>

Then actions sequences can be constructed like

// Drag the mouse from 0,0 to 100,100 with ctrl held down
test_driver.Actions()
  .pointerMove(0, 0, origin="viewport")
  .keyDown("\uE009")
  .pointerDown()
  .pointerMove(100, 100, origin="viewport")
  .pointerUp()
  .keyUp()
  .send();

--
Fix error handling for testdriver tests.

Otherwise a protocol error leads to FAIL not ERROR.

--
Add element_by_selector to SelectorProtocolPart

--

wpt-commits: ceadf71f63047e88dddd9308fd9f06db24ecfb29, f1db6b22cf40d6b56665225dfd4f83bbddd76686, 01dfc0f42edacd529749fcf543e16431ba7a9490, 723dcaffe979639976dee773c09eb24694625c23, a9504407fb46702dbb2bba7df9d349d8eba7ce55
wpt-pr: 12726

testing/web-platform/tests/docs/_writing-tests/testdriver.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: testdriver.js Automation
order: 8.5
---

testdriver.js provides a means to automate tests that cannot be
written purely using web platform APIs.

It is currently supported only for [testharness.js][testharness]
tests.

## API

testdriver.js exposes its API through the `test_driver` variable in
the global scope.

NB: presently, testdriver.js only works in the top-level test browsing
context (and not therefore in any frame or window opened from it).

### bless

Usage: `test_driver.bless(intent, action)`
 * `intent`: a string describing the motivation for this invocation
 * `action`: an optional function

This function simulates [activation][activation], allowing tests to
perform privileged operations that require user interaction. For
example, sandboxed iframes with the
`allow-top-navigation-by-user-activation` may only navigate their
parent's browsing context under these circumstances. The `intent`
string is presented to human operators when the test is not run in
automation.

This method returns a promise which is resolved with the result of
invoking the `action` function. If no such function is provided, the
promise is resolved with the value `undefined`.

Example:

```js
var mediaElement = document.createElement('video');

test_driver.bless('initiate media playback', function () {
  mediaElement.play();
});
```

### click

Usage: `test_driver.click(element)`
 * `element`: a DOM Element object

This function causes a click to occur on the target element (an
`Element` object), potentially scrolling the document to make it
possible to click it. It returns a `Promise` that resolves after the
click has occured or rejects if the element cannot be clicked (for
example, it is obscured by an element on top of it).

Note that if the element to be clicked does not have a unique ID, the
document must not have any DOM mutations made between the function
being called and the promise settling.

### send_keys

Usage: `test_driver.send_keys(element, keys)`
 * `element`: a DOM Element object
 * `keys`: string to send to the element

This function causes the string `keys` to be send to the target
element (an `Element` object), potentially scrolling the document to
make it possible to send keys. It returns a `Promise` that resolves
after the keys have been send or rejects if the keys cannot be sent
to the element.

Note that if the element that's keys need to be send to does not have
a unique ID, the document must not have any DOM mutations made
between the function being called and the promise settling.

To send special keys, one must send the respective key's codepoint. Since this uses the WebDriver protocol, you can find a [list for code points to special keys in the spec](https://w3c.github.io/webdriver/webdriver-spec.html#keyboard-actions).
For example, to send the tab key you would send "\uE004".

### `test_driver.action_sequence(actions)`
 - `actions` <[Array]<[Object]>> an array of Action objects`
  - `action` <[Object]> A single action. See [spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/webdriver/#actions) for format

This function causes a sequence of actions to be sent to the browser. It is based of the [WebDriver API](https://www.w3.org/TR/webdriver/#actions).
The action can be a keyboard action, a pointer action or a pause. It returns a `Promise` that
resolves after the actions have been sent or rejects if an error was thrown.

[activation]: https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/interaction.html#activation
[testharness]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link _writing-tests/testharness.md %}
